# 3. Seamus Heaney - Scaffolding
#writing/substack

*Help, I'm pondering things again*

*Jan 1, 2021*

Griefbacon is one of my favorite substacks in the way she can spin a showerthought like [pizza boxes](https://griefbacon.substack.com/p/pizza-on-television) or [warm rooms](https://griefbacon.substack.com/p/warm-rooms) into a whole damn meditation on life and the way we live it. I often feel such a sense of kinship reading her, if you took down the eloquence 5x and added a dash of Asian and degenerate (these two things not related), so I was really struck when I came across this passage in her [post about New Years](https://griefbacon.substack.com/p/the-lemon-space):

> I miss parties a lot. I miss other people’s kitchens, and cabs across bridges, and the specific kind of loose acquaintance I would be overjoyed to see in a crowd at bar or a bookstore or somebody else’s house but absolutely would never call on the phone or arrange a Zoom hang with or text to check if they’re ok. I miss friendships that had nothing to do with crisis. I miss crowded rooms and I miss loving people without worrying about them. I miss irresponsibility and frivolity and laughing too loudly and going outside in the cold without a coat for ten minutes because the room had gotten too warm, going outside with one friend because “I have something to tell you but I can’t say it inside.” . . . I miss loving things—people, an evening, a room, this stupid city— for bad reasons, because they were pretty or because they made me feel like I was. I miss feeling like I was in the movie when the movie was just some bullshit about parties, and not about the apocalypse at all. I miss my friends coming over and lying down on my floor and talking about shit that just abundantly did not matter at all. I miss seeing friends and not immediately knowing exactly what we are going to talk about, not being able to map every conversation before it happens, the mandated rehearsal of horrors, the obvious topics, because what else would we say. 

Because gosh, I don't feel this at all. I don't hate parties, but I certainly don't miss them, not the big New Years blowouts at least. For a second there I had a bizarre sense of disorientation - is this what extroverts get to feel like all the time? Is this what normal, non-anhedonic people who actually *like* people and have deep friendships born in childhood and forged in the shared experiences of their twenties feel? What does it say about me that I'm so relieved not to have to crawl out of my pjs, slap on makeup, debate if I want to do the cute or the warm outfit, and drag myself to a place that is full of people I - here's the thing - *genuinely* like? I even enjoy meeting strangers (in fact, that's one of my worst habits at parties - I get distracted from my friends' groups by the shiny new rando at the other station.) So why don't I miss parties? Why am I not desperate for the resumption of normal social life like everyone else?

Why don't I miss human contact?

This naturally fed into a spiral of "oh so you don't have fun at these things?" "oh but when can I say I ever have fun" to "I'm content but is that FUN or is there some rush of dopamine everyone else is feeling that I can't because I'm a hollow empty HUSK of what should've been a raging hormonal river or at least a soup" to "are there people who can't generate oxytocin OH GOD WHAT IF I'M JUST NOT CAPABLE OF TRULY LOVING ANYONE". (Self-introspection, I gotta say - not my strongest suit. Same way I'll over-edit a chapter of fanfic until it's been tangled and untangled in so many ways it becomes a massive knot, possibly containing a figure that looks suspiciously like my mother, that I finally resign to the Trash folder in a fit of vicious glee. I'm the sort who enjoys the editing more than the writing; can't say I recommend that for life.) 

With the help of a few CBD gummies later though, I'd talked myself down my perch (it's not hard when you're five feet tall, admittedly). Let's put it this way - what if, for some people, socializing were like riding a bike? But not so easy, let's say - a *duck* riding a bike? That is, it's something you have to be taught, and you look really pretty silly doing it with your stubby little duck-legs, but over time the human-people accept you as one of their own (because hey, the bike-riding is the important part! never mind how easily it comes to ya or what's quackin' around in your duck-head, ya silly goose). And over time, it does get fun, even if it's just to escape faster from the humans. You never quite forget it, or at least you're not supposed to. But when you're away from it for a while, *remembering that it doesn't come naturally to you*, the anxiety builds. The thought of getting back on a bike becomes less like freedom and sunny days, and more like distressing effort with the possibility of rain. 

Maybe you did enjoy it once upon a time. But you can't remember much when you're out of practice, and the more you're out of practice, the harder it sounds, and that colors your memories of whether it was ever worth it. And you know you *should* be able to pick it back up pretty easily when you're back on the wheels, but shoulda-woulda-couldas, and really paddling around on the lily pond is just infinitely more satisfying and less rewarding, as with all easier things.

All this is a torturous way of saying I doubt I have ever had the memories griefbacon is so good at conjuring, but I also doubt my own doubt. Maybe I have had a few of the exact same experiences, but without the genesis of the same emotion for some reason (robots or ducks or whatever). Maybe I simply haven't had the same experiences. Maybe my anxiety leaves me with no room for other emotions to fill the floaty spaces of my brain, like a great big stupid balloon that circles itself without end.

Maybe I'm not alone in a deficit of feeling. Maybe *we're* the normal ones, and the deep-feelings-havers are the real weirdos, and really it's all evolution, we'll have a great advantage when the zombie apocalypse finally comes and we gotta buckle up and join the cannibals. Finally, human by more than a technicality. 

Two rather disparate images come to mind. One is this poem, which I read for the first time on an NYC subway train, and only discovered it was by Seamus Heaney later (and this was what imprinted it in my mind, because Heaney has always been frustratingly unreachable for me): 

*Scaffolding* 

Masons, when they start upon a building,
Are careful to test out the scaffolding;

Make sure that planks won’t slip at busy points,
Secure all ladders, tighten bolted joints.

And yet all this comes down when the job’s done
Showing off walls of sure and solid stone.

So if, my dear, there sometimes seem to be
Old bridges breaking between you and me

Never fear. We may let the scaffolds fall
Confident that we have built our wall.


This is a guilty hope of mine speaking, that I haven't truly fucked everything up by not being there to tend my bridges. I want to believe that the scaffolding is enough to survive a well-meaning-but-untalented mason, who puts effort but not love in his work. I want my bridges, but I also want my walls. I go back and forth on which will give me more comfort in the end, or if that matters at all.


The second image is that of the thousand or so hostels I've been browsing on my phone at night, looking for the proper combination of an acceptably-clean private room with a common-room atmosphere preferably labeled as "sociable" and "easy to meet people", but not as "party", which is an alias for "20-year-old Australians who will drink you under the table, and then under the roof".  For some reason every hostel that offers a picture of their atmosphere has the same one, a group of attractive young white people living their best life. *All happy families are alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.* I'm still trying to decide if I like that *happy* more than the roulette wheel of the other. 